Population : the entire group we want to focus our study on, be it population of men, or animal population or some bacteria.
Sample: Population is very large and it is impossible to gain data from all of it. So we require to collect data from a part of the population 			which can act as a representative of the whole population. This is called sample.
Inference: Is the conclusion or outcome which we obtain from the data as a result of its analysis. 

Variables: 
	1. Quantitative :- Ex- Number of people using internet per hour of the day.
	2. Catagorical:- Used as dummycodes. Example:- Gender

My 1st research question:- 
	I am using the GapMinder data
	Is there a relation between Alcohol consumption per adult(age 15+) and Unemployment rate(age 15+) 

Steps in data management:- 
	Deal with missing data.
	In some cases the missing data can be logically filled. For example in cases of skip patterns.
	Next step is creation of a secondary variable: A variable that contains information from two or more primary variables.
	After the creation of secondary variables, we need to consider if some of the primary variables need to be grouped or binned.

Data Visualisation:- 
 	Single Variable:-
	 	First step is to convert catagorical variables into a formatted manner so that they can be fitted as numeric variables into a format that python recognises as catagorical and henceforth can be plotted.
	 	Modality of a distribution:- 
	 		Unimodal :- single peak
	 		Bimodal :- Two peaks
	 		Uniform distribution
	 	
	 	Distribution can be skewed right or skewed left
	 	For example in the week 3 plots,  the alcohol consumtion histogram is skewed right. This indicates that most countries have a consumption per capita level below the center and is unimodal. And the second histogram of unemployment rate is unimodal and more or less unskewed.
	 	Skewed distributions can also be bimodal!! 

	 	Spread of a distribution (also called Variability):- The approximate range covered by the data. 
	 	The overall pattern of the distribution is described by - Shape, Center and Spread.

	 	As a measure of spread, standard deviation is commonly used. It is the average distance between a random point and the mean.
	 	Variance=Sum((Xi-X_mean)**2)/(n-1)
	 	SD=Sqrt(Variance)

	 	Appropriate descriptive statistics:-
	 		Quantitative variables are best described by histograms, exact shapes, centers and spread
	 		While catagorical variables are best described by frequency distributions and bar chart
	Two Variables:-
		We need to identify which is the dependent variable and which is the independent variable first of all. The dependent variable is plotted on the y axis.
		The first question :- Is the dependent variable catagorical or quantitative. If catagorical, how many catagories?
		Next question to ask:- What type is the explainatory variable? 
		If the response variable is catagoric and the explainatory variable is quantitative, convert the explainatory variable into catagoric by introduction of a new variable derrived from the original explainatory variable. 
		Now we can graph a C->C bar chart. 

	If there are more than two response catagories:-  We need to collapse the response catagories into two. 
	When the response variable is quatitative for the plot of urban rate vs internet use, both response and explainatory variables are quantitative A bar chart will not wok here, we require a scatter plot !! 